readme.md, before:

# pbr: a golang 3D renderer

Package pbr implements Physically-Based Rendering via a unidirectional CPU-only Monte Carlo path tracer.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/hunterloftis/pbr/pbr?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/hunterloftis/pbr/pbr)

```bash
$ go get github.com/hunterloftis/pbr
```

---

![Examples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44284436-a29a8b80-a22f-11e8-96db-7ab6ebebef1e.jpg)

[More examples](#renders)

---

## Hello, World

```go
func main() {
	floor := surface.UnitCube(material.Plastic(1, 1, 1, 0.05))
	floor.Shift(geom.Vec{0, -0.1, 0}).Scale(geom.Vec{10, 0.1, 10})
	ball := surface.UnitSphere(material.Gold(0.05, 1))
	ball.Scale(geom.Vec{0.1, 0.1, 0.1})

	c := camera.NewSLR().MoveTo(geom.Vec{0, 0, -0.5}).LookAt(geom.Vec{0, 0, 0})
	s := surface.NewList(ball, floor)
	e := env.NewGradient(rgb.Black, rgb.Energy{750, 750, 750}, 7)

	scene := render.NewScene(c, s, e)
	err := render.Iterative(scene, "hello.png", 898, 450, 8, true)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "\nError: %v\n", err)
	}
}
```

![Hello, World](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44286751-35d7bf00-a238-11e8-91c5-5a1ea208f726.png)

## Features

- Simple synchronous API, concurrent execution, 100% Go
- A standalone CLI
- .obj and .mtl meshes and materials (Wavefront)
- .hdri environment maps (Radiance)
- Physically-based materials (metalness/roughness workflow)
- Texture maps (base, roughness, metalness)
- Physically-based cameras (depth-of-field, f-stop, focal length, sensor size)
- Direct, indirect, and image-based lighting
- Progressive rendering

## Related work

- https://github.com/alexflint/go-arg
- https://github.com/ftrvxmtrx/tga
- https://github.com/Opioid/rgbe
- https://github.com/fogleman/pt

## CLI

```
Usage: pbr [--verbose] [--info] [--frames FRAMES] [--time TIME] [--material MATERIAL] [--width WIDTH] [--height HEIGHT] [--scale SCALE] [--rotate ROTATE] [--mark] [--out OUT] [--heat HEAT] [--profile] [--from FROM] [--to TO] [--focus FOCUS] [--lens LENS] [--fstop FSTOP] [--expose EXPOSE] [--bounce BOUNCE] [--indirect] [--ambient AMBIENT] [--env ENV] [--rad RAD] [--floor FLOOR] [--floorcolor FLOORCOLOR] [--floorrough FLOORROUGH] [--sun SUN] [--sunsize SUNSIZE] SCENE

Positional arguments:
  SCENE                  input scene .obj

Options:
  --verbose, -v          verbose output with scene information
  --info                 output scene information and exit
  --frames FRAMES, -f FRAMES
                         number of frames at which to exit [default: +Inf]
  --time TIME, -t TIME   time to run before exiting (seconds) [default: +Inf]
  --material MATERIAL    override material (glass, gold, mirror, plastic)
  --width WIDTH, -w WIDTH
                         rendering width in pixels [default: 800]
  --height HEIGHT, -h HEIGHT
                         rendering height in pixels [default: 450]
  --scale SCALE          scale the scene by this amount
  --rotate ROTATE        rotate the scene by this vector
  --mark                 render a watermark
  --out OUT, -o OUT      output render .png
  --heat HEAT            output heatmap as .png
  --profile              record performance into profile.pprof
  --from FROM            camera location
  --to TO                camera look point
  --focus FOCUS          camera focus ratio [default: 1]
  --lens LENS            camera focal length in mm [default: 50]
  --fstop FSTOP          camera f-stop [default: 4]
  --expose EXPOSE        exposure multiplier [default: 1]
  --bounce BOUNCE, -b BOUNCE
                         number of indirect light bounces [default: 6]
  --indirect             indirect lighting only (no direct shadow rays)
  --ambient AMBIENT      the ambient light color [default: &{1000 1000 1000}]
  --env ENV, -e ENV      environment as a panoramic hdr radiosity map (.hdr file)
  --rad RAD              exposure of the hdr (radiosity) environment map [default: 100]
  --floor FLOOR          size of the floor relative to the scene mesh
  --floorcolor FLOORCOLOR
                         the color of the floor [default: &{0.9 0.9 0.9}]
  --floorrough FLOORROUGH
                         roughness of the floor [default: 0.5]
  --sun SUN              position of a daylight emitter
  --sunsize SUNSIZE      size of the sun [default: 1]
  --help, -h             display this help and exit
  --version              display version and exit
  ```

  ## Renders

  ![Lion](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287057-62d8a180-a239-11e8-89b3-a6d5b5d0e6d1.png)

  ![Lambo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287090-7d127f80-a239-11e8-9590-3ea7b8a68c22.png)

  ![Buddha](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287101-84398d80-a239-11e8-83d4-7062ababbe40.png)

  ![Sponza](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287118-91567c80-a239-11e8-8463-2c16afdd204a.png)

Commit message:

fixtures docs and Makefile target

readme.md, after:

# pbr: a golang 3D renderer

Package pbr implements Physically-Based Rendering via a unidirectional CPU-only Monte Carlo path tracer.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/hunterloftis/pbr/pbr?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/hunterloftis/pbr/pbr)

```bash
$ go get github.com/hunterloftis/pbr
```

---

![Examples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44284436-a29a8b80-a22f-11e8-96db-7ab6ebebef1e.jpg)

[More examples](#renders)

---

## Hello, World

```go
func main() {
	floor := surface.UnitCube(material.Plastic(1, 1, 1, 0.05))
	floor.Shift(geom.Vec{0, -0.1, 0}).Scale(geom.Vec{10, 0.1, 10})
	ball := surface.UnitSphere(material.Gold(0.05, 1))
	ball.Scale(geom.Vec{0.1, 0.1, 0.1})

	c := camera.NewSLR().MoveTo(geom.Vec{0, 0, -0.5}).LookAt(geom.Vec{0, 0, 0})
	s := surface.NewList(ball, floor)
	e := env.NewGradient(rgb.Black, rgb.Energy{750, 750, 750}, 7)

	scene := render.NewScene(c, s, e)
	err := render.Iterative(scene, "hello.png", 898, 450, 8, true)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "\nError: %v\n", err)
	}
}
```

![Hello, World](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44286751-35d7bf00-a238-11e8-91c5-5a1ea208f726.png)

## Features

- Simple synchronous API, concurrent execution, 100% Go
- A standalone CLI
- .obj and .mtl meshes and materials (Wavefront)
- .hdri environment maps (Radiance)
- Physically-based materials (metalness/roughness workflow)
- Texture maps (base, roughness, metalness)
- Physically-based cameras (depth-of-field, f-stop, focal length, sensor size)
- Direct, indirect, and image-based lighting
- Progressive rendering

## Related work

- https://github.com/alexflint/go-arg
- https://github.com/ftrvxmtrx/tga
- https://github.com/Opioid/rgbe
- https://github.com/fogleman/pt

## CLI

```
Usage: pbr [--verbose] [--info] [--frames FRAMES] [--time TIME] [--material MATERIAL] [--width WIDTH] [--height HEIGHT] [--scale SCALE] [--rotate ROTATE] [--mark] [--out OUT] [--heat HEAT] [--profile] [--from FROM] [--to TO] [--focus FOCUS] [--lens LENS] [--fstop FSTOP] [--expose EXPOSE] [--bounce BOUNCE] [--indirect] [--ambient AMBIENT] [--env ENV] [--rad RAD] [--floor FLOOR] [--floorcolor FLOORCOLOR] [--floorrough FLOORROUGH] [--sun SUN] [--sunsize SUNSIZE] SCENE

Positional arguments:
  SCENE                  input scene .obj

Options:
  --verbose, -v          verbose output with scene information
  --info                 output scene information and exit
  --frames FRAMES, -f FRAMES
                         number of frames at which to exit [default: +Inf]
  --time TIME, -t TIME   time to run before exiting (seconds) [default: +Inf]
  --material MATERIAL    override material (glass, gold, mirror, plastic)
  --width WIDTH, -w WIDTH
                         rendering width in pixels [default: 800]
  --height HEIGHT, -h HEIGHT
                         rendering height in pixels [default: 450]
  --scale SCALE          scale the scene by this amount
  --rotate ROTATE        rotate the scene by this vector
  --mark                 render a watermark
  --out OUT, -o OUT      output render .png
  --heat HEAT            output heatmap as .png
  --profile              record performance into profile.pprof
  --from FROM            camera location
  --to TO                camera look point
  --focus FOCUS          camera focus ratio [default: 1]
  --lens LENS            camera focal length in mm [default: 50]
  --fstop FSTOP          camera f-stop [default: 4]
  --expose EXPOSE        exposure multiplier [default: 1]
  --bounce BOUNCE, -b BOUNCE
                         number of indirect light bounces [default: 6]
  --indirect             indirect lighting only (no direct shadow rays)
  --ambient AMBIENT      the ambient light color [default: &{1000 1000 1000}]
  --env ENV, -e ENV      environment as a panoramic hdr radiosity map (.hdr file)
  --rad RAD              exposure of the hdr (radiosity) environment map [default: 100]
  --floor FLOOR          size of the floor relative to the scene mesh
  --floorcolor FLOORCOLOR
                         the color of the floor [default: &{0.9 0.9 0.9}]
  --floorrough FLOORROUGH
                         roughness of the floor [default: 0.5]
  --sun SUN              position of a daylight emitter
  --sunsize SUNSIZE      size of the sun [default: 1]
  --help, -h             display this help and exit
  --version              display version and exit
```

## Renders

All of these, and many more are in the Makefile.
To render them yourself, you'll need the `fixtures` directory of 3D assets:

```
$ make fixtures
```

![Lion](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287057-62d8a180-a239-11e8-89b3-a6d5b5d0e6d1.png)

![Lambo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287090-7d127f80-a239-11e8-9590-3ea7b8a68c22.png)

![Buddha](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287101-84398d80-a239-11e8-83d4-7062ababbe40.png)

![Sponza](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/364501/44287118-91567c80-a239-11e8-8463-2c16afdd204a.png)
